
Skip to content



Register

Sign In
Zelensky expects 'important decisions' on Ukraine at G7 summit
45 minutes ago
By Alex Smith, 
BBC News
 • 
James Landale, 
Diplomatic correspondent, 
@BBCJLandale

Share
Getty Images Ukrainian soldiers training in Chasiv Yar, Donetsk region on 11 JuneGetty Images
Russian attacks on Ukraine have left the country war-weary and President Zelensky has been appealing for cash
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky says he expects "important decisions" to be made at the G7 summit of leaders from seven of the world's richest nations.
"A large part will be devoted to Ukraine, our defence and economic resilience," he said in a post on Telegram.
The White House says the G7 has made good progress on a US plan to use frozen Russian assets to raise $50bn (£39bn) a year for his country.
Mr Zelensky, who will attend the summit, is also expected to sign new security deals with Japan and the United States.
The G7 nations of Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the UK and US have been important financial and military supporters of Ukraine since Russia's full-scale invasion in 2022.
The Russian assets that were frozen by the group, alongside the EU, when Moscow invaded Ukraine amount to $325bn.
Under international law, countries cannot confiscate those assets from Russia and give them to Ukraine.
But the pot is generating a lot of interest - around $3bn a year - so the idea is to use that interest in a creative way.
The plan is to take out a loan on the international markets, give about $50bn to the Ukrainians each year, and use the $3bn to pay off the interest on that loan each year.
It sounds relatively straightforward, but it is hugely complicated. There are still lots of technicalities to sort out.
President Biden's security adviser Jake Sullivan says the "major tentpoles" of the plan have been decided and that a good outcome is likely.
In recent weeks Russian officials have spoken about the idea of taking the interest from seized assets as "theft".
PA Media G7 leaders meet at round tablePA Media
Discussions have begun at the G7 meeting in Puglia, southern Italy
With Mr Biden in the middle of a close election contest, and several other Western leaders lagging in the polls, there is pressure to deliver support to Ukraine while they still can.
The UK's Prime Minister Rishi Sunak, who faces an upward struggle ahead of next month's general elections, is set to announce up to $309m in support for Ukraine's energy and humanitarian needs.
Also facing voters soon is the party of French President Emmanuel Macron, who called a snap parliamentary election after a resounding loss to the far-right National Rally in last weekend's elections to the EU's parliament.
Italy's Giorgia Meloni has boasted that her country was heading into this summit with “the strongest government of all”, after a strong performance in the European elections last weekend.
What could the G7 do about Ukraine and Gaza?
Seven new ice cream flavours and the Pope: Italy prepares to host G7
The shaky political situation in many G7 countries is causing some observers to have low expectations about what can be achieved.
Natalie Tocci, the director of the Italian Institute for International Affairs, warned that "if anything will come out of this summit, it's the fear of a catastrophe playing out before our eyes," citing possible new governments led by Donald Trump in the US and the far-right in France on the horizon.
Also on the agenda is the climate crisis, migration from Africa to Europe, the war in Gaza and artificial intelligence.
Pope Francis - who will become the first pontiff to attend a G7 summit - will be addressing the subject of artificial intelligence at the conference.
He has previously called for global regulation of AI, warning of its danger to ethics and human rights.
War in Ukraine
G7 summits
Italy
Russia sanctions
G7
Related
Russian warships in Cuba are no threat, US says
20 mins ago
World
What could the G7 do about Ukraine and Gaza?
3 hrs ago
World
How the Klitschkos used fame to aid Ukraine's war effort
4 hrs ago
More
9 hrs ago
Italian Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni guest on the television program Cinque Minuti. Rome
Italy's Meloni basks in G7 limelight with Western leaders
PM Giorgia Meloni will welcome other world leaders to Puglia after election success for her party.

World
12 hrs ago
Woman in sunglasses and wearing a grey hooded sweatshirt leaves a Moscow money exchange
US widens Russia sanctions in banking crackdown
The US broadens Russia sanctions, including a fresh crackdown on banks and tech.

Business
3 days ago
German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier and French President Emmanuel Macron
Macron snap election leaves rivals stunned after EU vote
Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire said the vote could have "serious consequences" for France.

Europe
3 days ago
Italian Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni
A night of drama in Europe as EU parliament moves to right
As France calls for a snap election, other European countries weigh their gains and losses.

Europe
3 days ago
The EPP's Manfred Weber and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen celebrate the result of the centre right
Europe's night of election drama capped by Macron bombshell
The French leader lost to the far right then called an election, in one of many big stories across the EU.

Europe
Home
News
Sport
Business
Innovation
Culture
Travel
Earth
Video
Live
Audio
Weather
BBC Shop
BBC in other languages
Terms of Use
About the BBC
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Accessibility Help
Contact the BBC
Advertise with us
Do not share or sell my info
Contact technical support
Copyright 2024 BBC. All rights reserved.  The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
 
Let us know you agree to cookies
We use cookies to give you the best online experience.
Please let us know if you agree to all of these cookies.
Yes, I agree
No, take me to settings